**Tak: The Computational Toxicological Machine**

**Background**: The amount of knowledge in toxicology, even sometimes for a single patient, exceeds the memory and processing capacity of a single human. The pace of increase of this knowledge, as new pharmaceuticals are approved or novel psychoactive substances emerge, exacerbates this issue. Clinical decision support tools have been used in medicine to augment the knowledge base with which physicians make clinical decisions. Medical toxicologists frequently employ online or electronic resources when providing care. These resources expand the toxicologist's knowledge base but not processing capability. Here we demonstrate a clinical decision support tool, Tak, that uses artificial intelligence to identify the most likely toxidrome in a poisoned patient. When tested on synthetic patients, Tak had _X_ accuracy. When tested against a panel of 3 board certified medical toxicologists, Tak has _X_ accuracy. 

**Methods**: Tak is constructed using a Markov Logic Network, a network of first-order logic statements (axioms) weighted by probabilities. We derived by committee consensus 90 axioms to capture essential features of the four classic toxidromes (sympathomimetic, anticholinergic, cholinergic, sedative-hypnotic), serotonin syndrome, and opioid intoxication. Each of these 6 presentations was characterized by 5 signs (_e.g._ tachycardic, bradypneic, delirious). To internally validate Tak, we generated 240 synthetic poisoned patients, each of which presented with features chosen from one dominant and one distracting toxidrome. The features were chosen in various mixtures to simulate "classic", "somewhat mixed", and "complete mixed" presentations. We, for external validation, compared Tak's rating of another 240 synthetic poisoned patients to the ratings of three medical toxicologists.

**Results**: Tak correctly identified the toxidrome in _X_ out of _Y_ in the internal validation data set. _Describe error analysis_. Tak correctly identified the toxidrome in _X_ out of _Y_ in the external validation data set. _Error analysis_ Medical toxicologists achieved conensus on _X_ out of _Y_ toxicologists. Tak agreed with the toxicologists on _X_ out of _Y_ of those. _Error analysis_. 

**Conclusions**: Here we demonstrate an application of artificial intelligence that extends physician reasoning beyond a single physician all the while being able to explain its medical decision making to clinicans. Markov logic networks hold promise as a transparent artificial intelligence method to scale up medical reasoning to the scope of medical knowledge. As people increasingly seek toxicologic information online an updatable computational embodiment of the knowledge base of toxicology will _words here_.

**Stuff for paper**:  Its rule-based reasoning process and conclusions resemble that of clinicians, in contrast to black-box approaches such as neural networks. Tak, however, is less
