**Tak: The Computational Toxicological Machine**

**Background**: The amount of knowledge in toxicology, even sometimes for a single patient, exceeds the memory and processing capacity of a single human. The pace of increase of this knowledge, as new pharmaceuticals are approved or novel psychoactive substances emerge, exacerbates this issue. Clinical decision support tools have been used in medicine to augment the knowledge base with which physicians make clinical decisions. Medical toxicologists frequently employ online or electronic resources when providing care. These resources expand the toxicologist's knowledge base but not processing capability. Here we demonstrate a clinical decision support tool, Tak, that uses artificial intelligence to identify the most likely toxidrome in a poisoned patient. 

**Methods**: Tak is constructed using a Markov Logic Network, a network of first-order logic statements (axioms) weighted by probabilities. We derived by committee consensus 90 axioms to capture essential features of the four classic toxidromes (sympathomimetic, anticholinergic, cholinergic, sedative-hypnotic), serotonin syndrome, and opioid intoxication. Each of these 6 presentations was characterized by 5 signs (_e.g._ tachycardic, bradypneic, delirium). To internally validate Tak, we generated 1000 synthetic poisoned patients, each of which presented with features chosen from one dominant and one distracting toxidrome. The features were chosen in various mixtures to simulate "classic", "somewhat mixed", and "complete mixed" presentations. We, for external validation, compared Tak's rating of another 250 synthetic poisoned patients to the ratings of three medical toxicologists.

**Results**: Tak correctly identified the toxidrome in 62% (628/1000) in the internal validation data set, most commonly confusing anticholinergic with sympathomimetic presentations and opioid with sedative-hypnotic presentations. Tak correctly identified the toxidrome in 13% (16/119) of the cases in the external validation data set. Toxicologists identified the toxidrome in 16% (19/119)  of the cases. Toxicologists and Tak agreed with each other on 39% (45/118) of the cases. The most common sources of disagreement were over anticholinergic vs sympathomimetic toxidromes. For both Tak and toxicologists the largest sources of inaccuracy 

**Conclusions**: Here we demonstrate an application of artificial intelligence that extends physician reasoning beyond a single physician all the while being able to explain its medical decision making to clinicans. Markov logic networks hold promise as a transparent artificial intelligence method to scale up medical reasoning to the scope of medical knowledge. As people increasingly seek toxicologic information online an updatable computational embodiment of the knowledge base of toxicology will _words here_.

**Stuff for paper**:  Its rule-based reasoning process and conclusions resemble that of clinicians, in contrast to black-box approaches such as neural networks. Tak, however, is less
